SLUG: yoga-supported-wrist-stretch
SECTION: sec3dot1-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.1. Wrists/Hands
p1: In Figure 1a–i are shown āsana suggested to decompress and reduce the stiffness of wrists and palms. The proposed āsana are Upavistha Hasta Simbhāsana (seated with hands in lion pose) (Figure 1a) and Sama Hasta Simbhāsana (standing position, hands in lion pose, i.e., palms pressing down on the surface with fingers straight backwards) (Figure 1b–i).
p3: Keep in consideration that the more the palm (carpal and metacarpal area) is lifted up from the plane, the more the stretch shifts from the wrist–forearm to the palm–fingers, and also that the elongation increases in intensity by reducing the angle between hand and forearm. Note that the Figure 1h,i show a movement leading to the enlargement of the narrow passageway forming the carpal tunnel.

SLUG: yoga-seated-neck-tilt
SECTION: sec3dot2-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.2. Neck
p1: In Figure 2a–j and Figure 3a–j are displayed āsana involving the neck and upper back, showing detensioning and compensatory movements. The yoga postures selected for the protocol involve movements of extension (bending backward), flexion (bending forward), and neck extension or flexion with associate axial rotation and lateral bending.
p5: Grivāsana or Kantasanchalana, i.e., the neck movements displayed in Figure 2a–j, show an intense detensioning of the head–neck craniovertebral junctions (decompression of the occipital-atlanto, atlanto-axial, and intervertebral joints) for treatment and prevention of musculo-ligamentous retractions. A deep neck extension having an intense elongation effect on the sternocleidomastoid, scalene (Figure 2a–e), levator scapula (Figure 2c), trapezius and suboccipital (Figure 2c,f–j) muscles, interspinales and erector spinae (Figure 2f–j), longus colli, platysma, digastric, and hyoid (Figure 2e) muscles is displayed. We highlight that the stretching of the muscles increases in intensity with increasing flexion and bending and also by bending with hands gripping the chair (note Figure 1b vs. Figure 1b1 and Figure 1c vs. Figure 1d). We recommend intensifying the position by following a steady rhythmic deep breathing (no fragmented breath, no apnea). 
p6: Note in Figure 2b,b1,d,d1 the different elongations induced by the arm traction with the arm resting on the leg or with hands gripping the chair.

SLUG: yoga-seated-chest-opening
SECTION: sec3dot2-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.2. Neck
p7: In Figure 3a–j are shown āsana for neck and chest extension; a synchronous hyperflexion of shoulders is practiced in Figure 3c–e,j; and a synchronous shoulders hyperextension is displayed in Figure 3f,g,i. 
p12: Therefore, we solicit to turn your attention inward to the internal structures of throat and chest, to search for tension and movement perception.
p13: Focus on the thoracic extension, the arched back. Move the sternum and throat outward using the power of the breath.
p16: We would elucidate that thoracic extension is the ability for the t-spine to move from its normally kyphotic or forward rounded position to a flat or arched back position. The lack of thoracic extension is a very common mobility restriction. At the beginning of the mobilization, pain and discomfort can occur and can be disquieting and even strong as the body resists. By surrendering to it, we soften the body, and gradually it will lessen. Concentration on the breath leads to softening of the body to lessen the discomfort and a pleasant muscular and mental surrender.

SLUG: yoga-seated-side-bend
SECTION: sec3dot3-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.3. Shoulder Girdle
p4: Figure 5a–h displays side bending and twisting of the body trunk to stretch the body sides and destress the intervertebral muscles (intertransversarii and interspinales) and erector spinae. Figure 5a,b also shows movements for the shoulders. Figure 5a–h illustrates āsana to stretch and loosen the shoulders and trunk side, with elongation of the triceps, serratus posterior, latissimus dorsi, rhomboids, and quadratus lumborum muscles.
p5: We recommend taking a deep slow breath and then entering into the āsana. Remain for some breaths in the position and then (if the body allows) intensify the movement during each expiration with a focused mind and the breath driving body bending or twisting. Avoid haste, apneas, and judgments.
SECTION: sec3dot5-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.5. Side Bending
p1: Figure 8a–h shows twisting (Figure 8a,b,d) and side bending (Figure 8c,e–h) āsana for the spine.
p2: A three-dimensional active stretch has to be applied to loosen and to engender both elongation and space inside the compressed structures by means of pushing muscles.
p3: Drive your bones away from each other while the focus dives inside with every breath (inhalation).

SLUG: yoga-seated-twist
SECTION: sec3dot3-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.3. Shoulder Girdle
p4: Figure 5a–h displays side bending and twisting of the body trunk to stretch the body sides and destress the intervertebral muscles (intertransversarii and interspinales) and erector spinae. Figure 5a,b also shows movements for the shoulders. Figure 5a–h illustrates āsana to stretch and loosen the shoulders and trunk side, with elongation of the triceps, serratus posterior, latissimus dorsi, rhomboids, and quadratus lumborum muscles.
p5: We recommend taking a deep slow breath and then entering into the āsana. Remain for some breaths in the position and then (if the body allows) intensify the movement during each expiration with a focused mind and the breath driving body bending or twisting. Avoid haste, apneas, and judgments.
SECTION: sec3dot4-jfmk-08-00026 | 3.4. Spine Twist and Side Bending
p1: Figure 7a–h shows āsana involving thoracic spine twisting and side elongation. Stretch away your body with an inwardly directed mind.
p3: We would highlight that the thoracic spine should have freedom of movement in flexion (Figure 6e,g), extension (Figure 6a), and rotation (Figure 7a–h), with a higher range of movement in flexion. Rotation of the thoracic spine is responsible for about 80% of trunk rotation. The lumbar spine, as well, is involved in flexion and in the rotation movements displayed in Figure 6e,g and Figure 7a–h, with a lower range of motion compared to the thoracic and cervical spine.

