SLUG: dance-out-out-in-in
SECTION: S2-6 | Class Structure
p2: The exercises in the IMPROVment method are designed to help PPD engage with the challenges of motor control and coordination. The exercises present a movement theme for each class and increase in complexity as the class progresses. For example, an exercise practiced in chairs might also reappear at the barre, challenging participants to interpret in standing a prompt previously given in sitting. An example of an exercise that might thread throughout class is what Ms. Soriano refers to as “Out Out, In In” (OOII). OOII asks for inventive and varied examples of distal extension and contraction of limbs (including the head) either toward the center of the body (proximally) or away from the body center (into space). This general objective invites a diversity of expression, speed, and options and is incrementally more challenging from seated to ambulating. Examples of OOII in each of these setting are detailed within the four phases in Table 2. Regardless of physical ability, participants are able to participate in OOII in multiple expressive and meaningful ways, even if never moving from the chair.

SLUG: dance-pass-the-gesture
SECTION: S2-6-1 | Group Warm-up
p1: The initial phase of the class takes place with participants seated in chairs where their sitting balance is tested by a variety of ways of shifting weight. Prompts demand while moving expansively to the limits of their self-selected range while reinforcing curiosity, imagination, and playfulness. Even while sitting, rich imagery is used, pacing remains quick, and variability is rapid. Seated exercises are still demanding.
p2: A commonly performed seated exercise in this phase is called “Pass the Energy.” “Pass the energy” is designed to invite every participant-to-participate and be empowered by his/her movement choices. Just as it sounds, “Pass the Energy” asks participants to create a gesture with their whole body and “pass” that gesture to the next seated person. Each person’s “energy” has unique qualities and calls for eye contact as the recipient takes the “energy” and transforms it into his or her own version. After participants make their first movement choices, increases in pacing and variability add complexity to the exercise constraints (as described in Sections “Variability” and “Pacing”).

SLUG: dance-variable-tempo-walk
SECTION: S2-6-3 | Moving through Free Space
p1: Walking variations follow, first as freely moving on one’s own in the space and then interacting with others in the class in partnered and non-partnered interactions.
p3: Another example of a VAC for moving around chairs in the space is to walk with a certain “effort percentage.” This encourages participants to consider that they are in control of when they start and stop, as well as how fast or slow they move. Whatever the configuration of chairs in the space, participants might be given the VAC, “if the pace with which you are walking around the room now is 40%, transition to what 60% looks like (e.g., 20 or 75%).” Ms. Soriano determines the range of percentage changes in walking speed, based on the average pace the class presents in the moment. Finally, another walking exercise could be the simple VAC to walk and pause in the room over and over again, and each time during a pause period, create a different shape with your upper or lower body. In keeping with the improvisational emphasis on encouraging agency, each participant determines for him- or herself how long one pauses, or how long to walk before pausing.

